UPER.md, before:

<h1>The Problem Solving Framework : 'UPER'</h1>

* U = "Understand"
* P = "Plan"
* E = "Execute"
* R = "Reflect" / "Refactor"

<h2>1. Understanding the Problem</h2>

<p>The task at hand is to create a terminal based game written in Java that implements the Object-Oriented programming
 and design patterns we have learned thus far. </p>
<p>My game must be functional and playable by the user, contain instructions that are built-in and available as a
 separate file, and use the four pillars of OOP: encapsulation, inheritance, abstraction, and polymorphism. Each
  "game object" must be modelled using a Java class and the game must implement at least 1 interface, 1 abstract
   class, 1 lambda expression, and 1 stream. Lastly, my game must have at least one package and be structured
    logically, and have some type of error handling for bad user input.</p>
    
<h2>
    2. Planning the Solution
</h2>

<p>One key point I had to clarify before fully understanding where to begin
     was my project structure. After cloning the repository, I learned that there was no <ins>src</ins> folder in my
      project and when trying to add a new package, I was not given the option. After verifying my work must be sorted
       into packages that are logically structured, I had to figure out how to create a package. I created a folder
        named src, but still was unable to create packages or classes from within it. Finally I figured out that I had
         to set the newly created src folder as the <ins>Sources Root</ins> in order to create new packages and classes
          inside of it. After figuring out how to allow for the proper structuring of my project, I moved on to
           identifying the details of the problem.</p>
<p>The next step I took when planning my solution was to identify which game I would like to work on and why. My
 initial thoughts were minesweeper, flappy bird, and snake. The reason for those choices were because they were each
  games that I found myself playing all the time growing up. After reading through the instructions for this project
   in great detail and reading through the article provided in our instructions, I decided to go down the path of
    creating a text-based game that allows the user to make choices that take them down certain paths dependent upon
     those choice. The reason I decided to go down this path rather than that of my original game ideas is because I
      feel as though the simplistic nature of a text-based game will really allow me to take full control over the
       project and incorporate OOP and OOD patterns more cohesively. I was also able to find extensive amounts of
        information online regarding how to develop a text-based Java game.
       </p>
<p>After determining what type of game I was going to create, I began coming up with a UML diagram to map how I was
 going to code it out and outline the structure in which I would like to set up my project. <li>Here, I ran into some
  problems. I had virtually no idea how I  was going to go about setting up my game, so I decided to do more research
   online and try to grab inspiration from other developer's text-based games I could find. The two primary resources
    I used were Tim Buchalka's <em>Java Programming Masterclass for Software Developers</em> Udemy course and a
     YouTube playlist called <em>Program a Text Adventure Game in Java</em> taught by Huw Collingbourne. These
      resources aided me immensely in my development of a text-based adventure game and primarily left me with the
       tasks of implementing the core requirements into the game.
     </li></p>
<p>After absorbing the resources listed in the bullet point above, I found myself working backwards. I have a
 functional text-based adventure game, but the core requirements were missing. I had no abstract class, no interface
 , no lambda, no stream, and still had to determine how I would organize my codebase to allow for these things. At
  this point, I decided to begin refactoring my code into functional pieces that would work together. First, how
   would I achieve something like that? Knowing I needed at least one abstract class and one interface, I researched
    those things (notated in 3. Executing the Plan) and determined where they would be best implemented in my
     codebase. The perfect points for these abstractions were my Level class, which would ideally become a blueprint
      for how a new level should be set up by turning it into an abstract class and extending it to each Level# class. 
      Next, I identified the fact that each Level# that was created contained a number of rooms, or each Level# HAS A
       room, per se, so I created a Room interface that would set the basis for how to set up each room that the
        player could go through in the game. Once I completed this, I made an individual class for each Room#, which
         implements the Room interface, that is available in the Level# for the player to go through. After this step
         , I was confident in my implementation of abstractions in my codebase and moved on to making the adventure
          game more enjoyable with some additional functionality like the ability to pick up a weapon and use it
           against a character that once would make you lose the game. After adding additional logic and
            functionality, I planned on working more on the overall design of the game and work on incorporating some
             SOLID principles wherever possible if time allows.
</p>

<h2>
    3. Executing the Plan
</h2>

<p>There were plenty of things I found myself getting caught up on when coding this adventure game. Many of these
 things popped up while I was trying to implement the core requirements. One reoccurring question I had was, "What
  exactly is the abstract class being used for?" Because of this question, it was difficult for me to understand if
   I was truly using the abstract class properly or if I was simply throwing one in there to meet the requirements. 
   This thought process led me to do more research and I stumbled upon an excellent explanation on Stack Overflow
    (https://bit.ly/abstract456).
    <li>The user <em>Kevin McCormick</em> states that, "Abstract classes improve the situation by preventing a
     developer from instantiating the base class, because a developer has marked it as having missing functionality. 
     It also provides compile-time safety so that you can ensure that any classes that extend your abstract class
      provide the bare minimum functionality to work..."</li></p>
<p>After getting a more clear understanding of abstract classes, I began contemplating the similarities and
 differences between an abstract class and an interface, which I was able to deduce from my prior notes on the topic
  from prior TEKcamp lectures. After understanding what each one did for my program, I came up with a couple of
   different ideas on where and how to implement them and then got with my TA to ensure they were realistic ideas and
    get some guidance before drastically changing my game. Once I talked it over with my TA, I was confident enough
     to push through with the changes and everything ended up working out successfully with very little to any
      refactoring needed in classes that were separate from those that I modified. Once I completed this, my
       self-confidence shot through the roof. I truly had an adventure game that was entirely my own with some pretty
        awesome functionalities, if I may say so myself!</p>
<p>The last step I had was to introduce a lambda and a stream into my adventure game, which I decided to implement at
 the creation of a new player. My lambda/stream combination takes in the name provided by the user and modified it so
  that each word is capitalized. Once done with that, I just had to refactor to incorporate a better, more cohesive
   design. To help me achieve this, I attended Craig Stockton's session on Saturday and received some awesome
    feedback. After discussing my project with Craig and Abram Jablonski, I was able to identify key portions of my
     codebase that were a bit off from the rest of the logic. These big points were my Room and Level functionalities
     . Room contained some functionality specific to the Level# the player is currently on, so I needed to take that
      out from the specific Room# and place it in the Level#, as well as modify the interface and abstract class
      , respectively.

<br>


<h2>
    4. Reflection / Refactor
</h2>

Commit message:

Updating UPER and adding the outline for the game.

UPER.md, after:

<h1>The Problem Solving Framework : 'UPER'</h1>

* U = "Understand"
* P = "Plan"
* E = "Execute"
* R = "Reflect" / "Refactor"

<h2>1. Understanding the Problem</h2>

<p>The task at hand is to create a terminal based game written in Java that implements the Object-Oriented programming
 and design patterns we have learned thus far. </p>
<p>My game must be functional and playable by the user, contain instructions that are built-in and available as a
 separate file, and use the four pillars of OOP: encapsulation, inheritance, abstraction, and polymorphism. Each
  "game object" must be modelled using a Java class and the game must implement at least 1 interface, 1 abstract
   class, 1 lambda expression, and 1 stream. Lastly, my game must have at least one package and be structured
    logically, and have some type of error handling for bad user input.</p>
    
<h2>
    2. Planning the Solution
</h2>

<p>One key point I had to clarify before fully understanding where to begin
     was my project structure. After cloning the repository, I learned that there was no <ins>src</ins> folder in my
      project and when trying to add a new package, I was not given the option. After verifying my work must be sorted
       into packages that are logically structured, I had to figure out how to create a package. I created a folder
        named src, but still was unable to create packages or classes from within it. Finally I figured out that I had
         to set the newly created src folder as the <ins>Sources Root</ins> in order to create new packages and classes
          inside of it. After figuring out how to allow for the proper structuring of my project, I moved on to
           identifying the details of the problem.</p>
<p>The next step I took when planning my solution was to identify which game I would like to work on and why. My
 initial thoughts were minesweeper, flappy bird, and snake. The reason for those choices were because they were each
  games that I found myself playing all the time growing up. After reading through the instructions for this project
   in great detail and reading through the article provided in our instructions, I decided to go down the path of
    creating a text-based game that allows the user to make choices that take them down certain paths dependent upon
     those choice. The reason I decided to go down this path rather than that of my original game ideas is because I
      feel as though the simplistic nature of a text-based game will really allow me to take full control over the
       project and incorporate OOP and OOD patterns more cohesively. I was also able to find extensive amounts of
        information online regarding how to develop a text-based Java game.
       </p>
<p>After determining what type of game I was going to create, I began coming up with a UML diagram to map how I was
 going to code it out and outline the structure in which I would like to set up my project. <li>Here, I ran into some
  problems. I had virtually no idea how I  was going to go about setting up my game, so I decided to do more research
   online and try to grab inspiration from other developer's text-based games I could find. The two primary resources
    I used were Tim Buchalka's <em>Java Programming Masterclass for Software Developers</em> Udemy course and a
     YouTube playlist called <em>Program a Text Adventure Game in Java</em> taught by Huw Collingbourne. These
      resources aided me immensely in my development of a text-based adventure game and primarily left me with the
       tasks of implementing the core requirements into the game.
     </li></p>
<p>After absorbing the resources listed in the bullet point above, I found myself working backwards. I have a
 functional text-based adventure game, but the core requirements were missing. I had no abstract class, no interface
 , no lambda, no stream, and still had to determine how I would organize my codebase to allow for these things. At
  this point, I decided to begin refactoring my code into functional pieces that would work together. First, how
   would I achieve something like that? Knowing I needed at least one abstract class and one interface, I researched
    those things (notated in 3. Executing the Plan) and determined where they would be best implemented in my
     codebase. The perfect points for these abstractions were my Level class, which would ideally become a blueprint
      for how a new level should be set up by turning it into an abstract class and extending it to each Level# class. 
      Next, I identified the fact that each Level# that was created contained a number of rooms, or each Level# HAS A
       room, per se, so I created a Room interface that would set the basis for how to set up each room that the
        player could go through in the game. Once I completed this, I made an individual class for each Room#, which
         implements the Room interface, that is available in the Level# for the player to go through. After this step
         , I was confident in my implementation of abstractions in my codebase and moved on to making the adventure
          game more enjoyable with some additional functionality like the ability to pick up a weapon and use it
           against a character that once would make you lose the game. After adding additional logic and
            functionality, I planned on working more on the overall design of the game and work on incorporating some
             SOLID principles wherever possible if time allows.
</p>

<h2>
    3. Executing the Plan
</h2>

<p>There were plenty of things I found myself getting caught up on when coding this adventure game. Many of these
 things popped up while I was trying to implement the core requirements. One reoccurring question I had was, "What
  exactly is the abstract class being used for?" Because of this question, it was difficult for me to understand if
   I was truly using the abstract class properly or if I was simply throwing one in there to meet the requirements. 
   This thought process led me to do more research and I stumbled upon an excellent explanation on Stack Overflow
    (https://bit.ly/abstract456).
    <li>The user <em>Kevin McCormick</em> states that, "Abstract classes improve the situation by preventing a
     developer from instantiating the base class, because a developer has marked it as having missing functionality. 
     It also provides compile-time safety so that you can ensure that any classes that extend your abstract class
      provide the bare minimum functionality to work..."</li></p>
<p>After getting a more clear understanding of abstract classes, I began contemplating the similarities and
 differences between an abstract class and an interface, which I was able to deduce from my prior notes on the topic
  from prior TEKcamp lectures. After understanding what each one did for my program, I came up with a couple of
   different ideas on where and how to implement them and then got with my TA to ensure they were realistic ideas and
    get some guidance before drastically changing my game. Once I talked it over with my TA, I was confident enough
     to push through with the changes and everything ended up working out successfully with very little to any
      refactoring needed in classes that were separate from those that I modified. Once I completed this, my
       self-confidence shot through the roof. I truly had an adventure game that was entirely my own with some pretty
        awesome functionalities, if I may say so myself!</p>
<p>The last step I had was to introduce a lambda and a stream into my adventure game, which I decided to implement at
 the creation of a new player. My lambda/stream combination takes in the name provided by the user and modified it so
  that each word is capitalized. Once done with that, I just had to refactor to incorporate a better, more cohesive
   design. To help me achieve this, I attended Craig Stockton's session on Saturday and received some awesome
    feedback. After discussing my project with Craig and Abram Jablonski, I was able to identify key portions of my
     codebase that were a bit off from the rest of the logic. These big points were my Room and Level functionalities. 
     Room contained some functionality specific to the Level# the player is currently on, so I needed to take that
      out from the specific Room# and place it in the Level#, as well as modify the interface and abstract class, 
      respectively.
<h2>
    4. Reflection / Refactor
</h2>
<p>Now that I have completed the adventure game, there are a couple of things that I would most definitely do
 differently if solving this problem again with more time. For one, I would take more time to understand UML diagrams
  and how to set them up so that I can clearly outline my classes and interfaces prior to coding; I truly believe
   this would significantly reduce my need to go back and refactor, which was notated on two separate occasions above. 
   On top of that, having a clear understanding of the overhead structure of my project would have reduced
    confusion along the way and ultimately help to keep me on a steady track. Furthermore, I would have incorporated
     a second level to help bolster the clarity of the use of the Level abstract class and to help make the game more
      fun overall. Finally, I would have looked into different GUI options to help bring my game to life and allow
       the user to have a more enjoyable experience overall. 
</p>
